# Game Story (from the NES Bomberman instruction manual)

![Screenshot](http://www.consoleclassix.com/info_img/Bomberman_NES_ScreenShot3.gif)

Bomberman is a robot engaged in the production of bombs. Like his fellow
robots, he had been put to work in an underground compound by evil
forces. Bomberman found it to be an unbearably dreary existence. One
day, he heard an encouraging rumor. According to the rumor, any robot
that could escape the underground compound and make it to the surface
could become human. Bomberman leaped at the opportunity, but escape
proved to be no small task. Alerted to Bomberman's betrayal, large
numbers of the enemy set out in pursuit. Bomberman can rely on bombs of
his own production for his defense. Will he ever make it up to the
surface? Once there, will he really become human?

# Game play (from the NES Bomberman instruction manual)

Bomberman's goal is to reach the surface of the earth. However, his
initial point of departure is deep in the bowel of the earth, so
Bomberman must search for exitways and make his way upwards, level by
level. Of course, enemy forces are lurking throughout the labyrinth, and
Bomberman must overcome each and everyone in order to advance to the
next level. If he should touch any of the enemy or be caught in the
flames of exploding bombs, he's out for the count, so extreme caution is
urged. The exitways are always concealed among the brick walls and can
only be found by dissolving bricks by the flames of exploding bombs,
also concealed in brick walls are "power-up" panels, which Bomberman
collects in order to increase his powers.

* **BOMBS** In the earliest stage of the game, only one bomb can be set
  at a time and it has very weak firepower. As "power-up" panels are
  taken in, the bombs become easier to use and more lethal. 

- **BRICKS** These dissolve when hit by the flames of exploding bombs.
Hidden within the bricks are exitways and "power-up" panels, so it is
wise to bomb out as many bricks as possible.

- **CONCRETE** Concrete walls aren't damaged by bomb fires, so Bomberman
  can take shelter from exploding bombs.

- **EXITWAYS** These are to be found among the bricks. After overcoming
  all enemies, Bomberman stands over the exitways to proceed to the next
  level. However, Bomberman is in real trouble if an exitway is hit by a
  bomb.

- **"POWER-UP" PANELS** These panels turn up occasionally among the
  bricks. There are several different types of panels with different
  effects, For example, in the illustration below, a panel is shown that
  has a picture of a bomb. When this panel is picked up, the number of
  bombs can be set at one time. The pictures seen on the panels show
  their various effects. There are levels that can not be cleared if
  Bomberman does not collect a large number of "power-up" panels, so
  panels should be picked up whenever they are found.

- **ENEMY CHARACTERS** There are 8 types of enemy characters. Each type
  moves in its own particular fashion, so it's wise to learn their
  moves. If all enemies on a single level can be knocked out by 7 bombs,
  a player's scores will increase greatly.

    - Balloom  100 pts.
    - O'neal   200 pts.
    - Doll     400 pts.
    - Minvo    800 pts.
    - Kondoria 1000 pts.
    - Ovapi    2000 pts.
    - Pass     4000 pts.
    - Pontan   8000 pts.

- **BONUS LEVELS** A bonus level is awarded after the consecutive five
  levels are cleared. The objective on bonus level is to take out as
  many enemies as possible within a limited time. On these levels,
  Bomberman can't be hurt by exploding bombs, so dump the explosives as
  much as you can.
